Editing TabSheet Page (#2318)
vaadin/docs: articles/components/tabs/index.asciidoc

:experimental:

// tag::description[]
Tabs are used to organize and group content into sections that the user can navigate.
// end::description[]

> Below is a simple example of tabs with the labels, `Details`, `Payment`, and `Shipping`:

Reviewer: I would avoid as much detail as possible when describing the examples, so that there’s less possibility for them to get out of sync.

```suggestion
Below is a simple example of tabs:
```

----
--

> You would disable a Tab to mark it as unavailable. Disabled Tabs can't be focused and may be invisible to assistive technologies, such as screen readers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can disable a tab to mark it as unavailable. Disabled tabs can't be focused and may be invisible to assistive technologies, such as screen readers.
```

When using autoselect and tab selection change listeners, you should add selection change listeners before adding any tabs if you want the listeners to trigger for the automatically selected tab.

== Orientation & Overflow

Tabs support two different orientations: horizontal (default) and vertical, which is not currently supported in Tab Sheets. Base your choice of orientation on your particular use case and the available space. Both are explained below.

=== Horizontal

> Horizontal tabs may be easier for users to understand and associate with the content. They're best suited for a small number of items, but provide scrolling on overflow. Try making the tabs in the example here scroll horizontally: you'll see that there are more than the initially visible three tabs.

Reviewer: I assume we want to instruct the reader to try and scroll the tabs, instead of trying to make the tabs scroll? Not sure if there’s a difference, though.

Depending on the browser viewport size, there might be less than three tabs visible initially. And again, if the example implementation changes in the future, the text might get out of sync.

```suggestion
Horizontal tabs may be easier for users to understand and associate with the content. They're best suited for a small number of items, but provide scrolling on overflow. Try to scroll the tabs in the example here horizontally: you'll see that there are more than the initially visible tabs.
```

----
--

> In horizontal orientation, scroll buttons are displayed by default to aid scrolling the tabs. These can be disabled by applying the `hide-scroll-buttons` theme variant. Notice in the example below that there's no scrollbar or scrolling, but all of the tabs are visible.

Reviewer: The example is a bit misleading, as it doesn't force the overflow in all cases. If you make the browser viewport smaller, you’ll can scroll the tabs. I updated the example in commit 88f128e4686cb3e4af2832c5a34e5295e0e1df47, forced it narrower like in the example before this one.

```suggestion
In horizontal orientation, scroll buttons are displayed by default to aid scrolling the tabs. These can be disabled by applying the `hide-scroll-buttons` theme variant. Notice in the example below that there's no scrollbar or scroll buttons, but you can still scroll to reveal the overflowing tabs.
```

----
--

== Icons & Other Tab Content

> Tabs can contain more than text. They can contain icons and other content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to text, tabs can contain icons and other content.
```

=== Icons

> Icons can be used to make tabs more prominent and easier to identify. They can be added next to the labels or above them.  Generally, Horizontal Tabs work best with icons above the labels, as you can see in the example below.

Reviewer: I don't see the need to capitalize "horizontal" or "tabs".

```suggestion
Icons can be used to make tabs more prominent and easier to identify. They can be added next to the labels or above them. Generally, horizontal tabs work best with icons above the labels, as you can see in the example below.
```

----
--

> Vertical Tabs work best with icons next to labels, as you can see here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vertical tabs work best with icons next to labels, as you can see here.
```

----
--

== Theme Variants

> There are a few theme variants that may be used with Tabs and Tab Sheets.

Reviewer: Talking about the components named "Tabs" and "Tab Sheet" specifically.

```suggestion
The following theme variants are available for Tabs and Tab Sheet.
```

=== Centered

> By default, Tabs are left-aligned. They can be centered using the `centered` theme variant.

Reviewer: Not talking about the "Tabs" component specifically, but about the visual tabs inside it.
```suggestion
By default, tabs are left-aligned. They can be centered using the `centered` theme variant.
```

----
--

> You would use this variant to suit your visual and stylistic preference. It's typically used for top-level navigation. However, use it only where appropriate since by default left-aligned tabs are more discoverable and what most users expect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use this variant to suit your visual and stylistic preference. It's typically used for top-level navigation. However, use it only where appropriate since by default left-aligned tabs are more discoverable and what most users expect.
```

=== Equal-Width Tabs

> Apply the `equal-width-tabs` theme variant to make each Tab share equally the available space. This disables the ability to scroll, though, since the content never overflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apply the `equal-width-tabs` theme variant to make each tab share equally the available space. This disables the ability to scroll, though, since the content never overflows.
```

----
--

> You would generally use this to reduce visual clutter. However, use it with caution as it reduces the visual distinction of selected tabs to color only. This can be difficult to discern for many users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can generally use this to reduce visual clutter. However, use it with caution as it reduces the visual distinction of selected tabs to color only. This can be difficult to discern for many users.
```

----
--

=== Bordered

> The `bordered` theme variant adds a border around the Tab Sheet component. You can see there's a long rounded-rectangle box around the Tabs and Tab Sheet here.

Reviewer: I feel this is repeating the previous sentence.

```suggestion
The `bordered` theme variant adds a border around the Tab Sheet component.
```

[role="since:com.vaadin:vaadin@V23.3"]
== Prefix & Suffix

> Custom content can be placed before or after the tabs in a Tab Sheet by placing that content in the `prefix` and `suffix` slots. Notice in the example here that there are three tabs like the previous example, but there's a button labeled "Close all" before the tabs and another labeled with a plus-sign after them, far to the right.

Reviewer: Too much detail IMO.

```suggestion
Custom content can be placed before or after the tabs in a Tab Sheet by placing that content in the `prefix` and `suffix` slots. Notice the additional content at both ends of the tab bar in this example.
```

----
--

== Focus & Keyboard

> Tab focus is rendered differently when focused by the keyboard. Once a tab is focused, arrow keys can be used to move the focus between tabs. Try pressing kbd:[Enter] or kbd:[Space] to select the tab on which to be focus -- or click on one tab with your mouse.  Then use the left and right arrow keys to shift the focus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tab focus is rendered differently when focused by the keyboard. Once a tab is focused, arrow keys can be used to move the focus between tabs. Try pressing kbd:[Enter] or kbd:[Space] to select the tab on which to be focus -- or click on one tab with your mouse. Then use the left and right arrow keys to shift the focus.
```

----
--

== Common Cases

=== Content Switching without Tab Sheet

Using the integrated content areas in [since:com.vaadin:vaadin@V23.3]#Tab Sheet# is the easiest way to switch among the different content for each tab. Sometimes, such as when the tabs need to be separated structurally from their content areas, it may be necessary to use the stand-alone Tabs component and manually implement content switching.

> Try clicking on each tab here. Notice how only the content, seemingly one word changes depending on which you select.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Try clicking on each tab here. Notice how the text content changes depending on which you select.
```

=== Lazy Initialization of Tab Contents

> Sometimes it can be desirable to initialize the contents for a tab, lazily. That is to say, delay its initialization until the tab is selected. When you first click on one of the tabs below, you'll notice some spinning icon, a delay until the tab content is displayed for each.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes it can be desirable to initialize the contents for a tab, lazily. That is to say, delay its initialization until the tab is selected. When you first click on one of the tabs below, you'll notice a loading indicator, and a short delay until the tab content is displayed for each.
```
